Stardate 49655.2.
Captain's Log,
JANEWAY:
Our sensors have located
a variety of flower
which may prove to be
nutritional supplement.
a valuable
Mr. Tuvok to collect samples.
I've sent Mr. Neelix and
( inhaling deeply )
Whoa!
Smell that air, Mr. Vulcan!
Look at that sky!
Oh, it's an exhilarating day,
isn't it?
As you well know by now,
Mr. Neelix,
I do not experience
exhilaration.
Oh, let's not quibble
about semantics.
A breeze is blowing,
the sun is shining.
It's beautiful.
adequate for our purposes.
The weather is certainly
Adequate?
You know something?
You're acting
than usual this morning.
more "Tuvokian"
I am who I am,
Mr. Neelix.
It is impossible for me to be
more or less like myself.
the semantics again.
There you go with
But you know what
I'm talking about.
I'm afraid I don't.
explain it to you.
Well, then, I'll
You're a nature lover,
aren't you?
I appreciate nature, yes.
It's one of the things that
you and I have in common.
And here we are,
on a perfect day,
foraging for an exceptionally
lovely variety of orchid--
your favorite flower--
and all you can say
is that it's adequate.
about the experience
I just... I don't see why
you're not having fun.
We are not here
to have fun.
to collect samples.
We are here
some regulation
Why? Is there
both at the same time?
that says we can't do
I know.
Why don't, why don't
we sing a song
while we toil, hm?
It'll cheer you up.
I've been studying Vulcan music.
that lovely tune that starts:
Uh... do you know
♪ O starless night ♪
♪ Of boundless black... ♪
is a traditional funeral dirge.
That "lovely tune"
I know,
but it was the most cheerful
song I could find
in the Vulcan
database.
Come on, Tuvok,
join me.
♪ O starless night ♪
♪ Of boundless black... ♪
( chuckling )
Mr. Neelix...
Yes?
you could possibly behave
Do you think
a little less...
like yourself?
( sighs )
back from the surface?
Are Neelix and Tuvok
trouble with the transporter.
Not yet. We're having some
Captain...
TORRES:
the molecular imaging scanners.
there's a minor glitch in
Ensign Kim should have it up
and running
in a few minutes.
the annular confinement beam.
Try narrowing
( console beeping )
How's that?
Let's try it again.
Kim to away team.
Sorry for the delay.
to bring you back.
We're ready
Acknowledged.
TUVOK:
Energize.
There's something
wrong, sir.
I'm only getting
one pattern.
Tuvok or Neelix?
it's either of them.
I don't think
Abort.
It's too late.
[♪♪♪]
Kim to Security.
Transporter Room 1.
Intruder alert,
Identify yourself.
I'm Lieutenant Tuvok.
And I'm Neelix.
the bio-scanners, he's right.
Sir, according to
Somehow their patterns
have merged.
is for me to go to Sick Bay.
I think the logical thing
And you recognize
all of us?
Of course.
Doctor, Captain Janeway,
Ensign Kim...
Kes.
My scans indicate
DOCTOR:
was merged on a molecular level.
that all biological matter
Proteins, enzymes,
DNA sequences.
The man you see
before you
fusion of two men.
is literally a
But he's surprisingly healthy,
considering the circumstances.
All vital signs are stable.
thing you remember?
What's the last
I... we... that is to say,
Tuvok and Neelix,
gathering the samples.
we had just finished
We were beaming back
to the ship.
The next thing I knew,
on the transporter pad
I was standing
as you see me now.
I'm also picking up
DOCTOR:
of a third genetic pattern.
traces
to be plant-based.
It appears
The orchids.
TUVIX:
We had collected several dozen
samples of orchids.
containers when we beamed up.
They were in our sample
of your genetic structure now.
Well, they're part
don't appear
But they
your biochemistry.
to be affecting
Torres said you were
having trouble with
the molecular imaging scanners.
That's right.
Maybe this alien plant life
the scanners in some way.
affected
after we've run a diagnostic
Possibly. I'll know more
and transporter logs.
on the biofilters
Get on it.
an away team in a shuttlecraft
In the meantime, I'll send
of the orchid for further study.
to collect fresh samples
Doctor, let me know as soon
as you have something more.
Yes, Captain.
Kes, take our patient
to the Science Lab
bio-spectral analysis.
and perform a full
I'll start examining
the genetic data.
( door opens, closes )
very difficult for you, Kes.
This situation must be
Perhaps it would be easier
administered these tests.
if someone else
Thank you for your concern,
but I'll be fine.
This scan is very delicate,
for the next 20 minutes.
so try to remain still
I'll do my best.
We're going to figure it out.
Don't worry.
Oh, I'm not worried.
I couldn't be in better hands.
consummate professionals.
This crew, you're
You're my friends.
My family.
So worrying would be illogical,
don't you think?
asked you some questions
Would you mind if I
you're going through?
about what
Not at all.
as if you're thinking
Well, do you feel
with two minds--
two separate minds?
inside of you, talking to me,
Are Neelix and Tuvok
talking to each other?
If you mean am I suffering
from some form
disorder, I don't think so.
of multiple personality
I do have the memories
of both men,
a single consciousness.
but I seem to have
You must find me
very odd, Kes.
No, of course not.
Try to keep still.
So... what should
I call you?
Ah, a name.
I hadn't thought of that.
What an intriguing question.
I can see why the Doctor
so difficult to choose one.
is finding it
a significant effect
A name can have
sense of identity.
upon a person's
I've got it.
What?
Why don't you call me...
Neevok.
Wait.
This is better.
How about Tuvix?
Tuvix it is.
I'm so glad you're here to help
me through this, sweeting.
I'm sorry.
It was instinct.
Why don't we finish the scan.
Chief Medical Officer's Log,
supplemental.
DOCTOR:
Extensive microcellular scans
on the merged humanoid
no clues to either a cause
have, thus far, yielded
or a method of separation.
Ah, Captain, so good
of you to come.
How are you feeling?
I feel well.
You might even say...
exhilarated.
I'm glad to hear it.
Well, that's what I wanted
to talk to you about.
In the past 24 hours,
rigorous diagnostic testing,
I've undergone
submitted to an extensive
psychological profile
poked and prodded
and I've been
didn't even know I had.
in organs that I
While all this testing
be necessary...
may no doubt
frankly, I'm restless.
To tell you the truth,
we could use a little help
in the Mess Hall.
to give you a hand.
And I'd be glad
But...
after careful consideration,
sensible thing for me to do
I've decided that the most
the tactical post.
is to resume
Tactical?
Remember, Captain,
knowledge and expertise,
I do possess Tuvok's
and while I have no doubt
that the crew misses
Neelix's cooking,
experienced Tactical Officer.
you need your most
That's me.
If I may, Captain.
Mr. Tuvix...
Tuvix?
Apparently, that's what
he likes to be called.
Mr. Tuvix is, indeed,
in perfect health.
And since I've collected
all the data I need,
there's no reason I can't
continue my investigation
for the time being.
without him
And, according to my tests,
he's quite correct
Tuvok's knowledge and expertise.
when he says that he possesses
He also possesses
of intellectual superiority
Tuvok's irritating sense
annoying ebullience.
and Neelix's
I would be very grateful to you
if you would assign him
some duty.
Any duty...
somewhere else.
Well... Mr. Tuvix...
I'm not ready to assign you
to the Bridge just yet,
join the senior staff
but why don't you
for our noon briefing,
how it goes from there.
and we'll see
Captain, has anyone
ever told you
that you are as fair-minded
as you are lovely?
As a matter of fact,
Neelix has told me
that occasionally.
possess his memories...
And if you really do
you'd know that flattery
will get you nowhere.
was functioning normally.
The transporter
Biofilters, pattern buffers,
everything checked out.
What about the problem
with the molecular
imaging scanners?
the transporter logs,
According to
the time of transport.
they were optimal at
It was a perfectly routine
beam-out sequence.
No anomalies,
no power overloads,
no malfunctions.
Our scans of the planet's
surface and atmosphere
don't show anything
out of the ordinary.
There's no evidence
CHAKOTAY:
of alien interference.
of any type
Frankly, Captain,
we're at a loss.
And the orchids, Kes?
Have you found anything
unusual about them?
Commander Chakotay brought back
a few samples on the shuttle
a biochemical analysis.
and I ran
They contain the same elements
as many plants: chloroplasts,
cytoplasmic proteins,
lysosomal enzymes,
nothing unusual.
but there's
There's never been an accident
like this recorded
of transporter technology.
in the entire history
I'm not willing to accept it
as a random malfunction.
Captain, I recommend we program
a holodeck simulation,
try recreating the accident.
Sex.
I beg your pardon?
What I mean to say is--
for cutting you off, Commander--
and I apologize
on the wrong track.
I think we're
Kes... you said that the flowers
you examined
contained lysosomal enzymes.
That's right.
According to Tuvok's
botanical research,
of lysosomal enzymes
the presence
could be evidence
of symbiogenesis.
Symbiogenesis?
Symbiogenesis is a rare
JANEWAY:
reproductive process.
Instead of pollination
or mating,
symbiogenetic organisms merge
with a second species.
Andorian amoebae,
for instance--
other single-celled organisms
they're able to merge with
to form a third
unique species.
A hybrid.
Like you.
Exactly.
It's an interesting idea,
microcellular organisms here.
but we're talking about
of symbiogenesis occurring
I've never heard
in a species as complex
as a humanoid.
when you think about it,
Actually, Captain,
Neelix and Tuvok
were broken down
to a microcellular level
during transport-- DNA,
protein, all in a state
of molecular flux.
And if the enzymes that
cause symbiogenesis
interacted with their DNA
while they were in
the matter stream,
their patterns to merge.
it might've caused
Like an Andorian amoeba.
Just like that,
Tuvix is born.
It's the best theory
I've heard so far.
It's the only theory
And it's worth investigating.
Mr. Paris, take a shuttle
to the planet
and collect additional
flower specimens.
Yes, ma'am, but I'd recommend
waiting until morning.
The weather on the planet
can get
pretty nasty
at night.
You'll depart at 600 hours.
Very well.
Good work, Mr. Tuvix.
Kes.
Oh, hello.
Hello.
Do you need something?
Actually, I was wondering
to join me for dinner.
if you'd like
Well, I, uh...
You've already eaten?
Well, no.
You're not hungry?
Actually...
If memory serves me,
Wednesday's the day
that Neelix always cooked
Trellan crepes--
your favorite meal?
That's right.
Well, why break
with tradition
just because of a little
transporter accident?
( laughs )
Somebody's eggs are burning!
Those are mine.
WOMAN:
Can you flip them for me?
I can't find a spatula.
tossing them.
Just... try
WOMAN:
Why don't you
have a seat?
I'll be with you
in a minute.
what's going on here, crewman?
Do you mind telling me
We're making dinner.
I see.
All right, everybody out!
On whose authority?
Chief of Security
or Head Chef--
take your pick.
Out, out, out!
( Tuvix clapping )
Come, come.
TUVIX:
Out!
( laughing )
So you really enjoyed
the crepes?
absolutely delicious.
Oh, they were
Don't you think Neelix
a little too spicy?
always made them
different than usual.
These were a little
Did you change the recipe?
Only slightly.
I thought more moderate
seasoning would allow
the flavor of the mushrooms
to come through.
I loved the mushrooms.
I'm glad.
I can't believe
how disorganized
this galley was.
It's a wonder Neelix
ever found anything.
He says he has a system.
already know that.
But I guess you
I admire your strength, Kes.
Why do you say that?
I know I'm not Neelix,
with complete certainty
but I can posit
that if the situation
were reversed--
if suddenly he found himself
without you in his life--
he'd be absolutely lost.
I have to go.
Thanks again for dinner.
Good morning, Captain.
Commander.
You're here bright and early,
Lieutenant.
Actually, I've been here
since 0400 hours.
I wanted to work on that
proximity detector glitch
in the security subroutine.
And how's it going?
I managed to correct it.
Tuvok said it could
take up to ten days
the possible problems.
to check out all
How'd you fix
it so fast?
I had a hunch.
"A hunch"?
That's correct.
You'll have a report
on your desk
this afternoon.
first thing
Kim to Mr. Tuvix.
Tuvix here.
We're just about ready
to start the transporter tests
if you'd like to join us.
I'm on my way.
Excuse me, Captain.
fitting in, isn't he?
Well, he's certainly
There's an old axiom:
"The whole is never greater
than the sum of its parts."
disproving that notion.
I think Tuvix might be
from the airponics bay.
Give me the flowers
Here you go.
One prize-winning
chrysanthemum...
one garden-variety
clematis...
and last but not least...
one symbiogenetic
alien orchid.
that botanical science class
I never thought
would come in so handy.
Torres to Transporter Room 1.
We're ready down here.
Acknowledged.
Energizing.
We've made over 100 attempts
to reverse the symbiogenesis
using the medical
transporter,
and each time, this has been
the unfortunate result--
cellular collapse.
complete
of the chrysanthemum
The genetic codes
and the clematis
are so scrambled
that the targeting
scanners
the original patterns.
can't recognize
I suppose it would be
like trying to extract
the flour, eggs
and water
after you'd baked
the cake.
case of Mr. Tuvix,
Obviously, in the
complex organism than a flower.
we're dealing with a much more
In effect, we're talking
two humanoid life-forms
about recreating
as a single discrete strand
without so much
of DNA to start with.
Are you saying I'm going
to be this way forever?
I am an incredibly
skilled doctor
and I will continue
to pursue
treatment until I find one...
a safe and effective
but I won't lie to you.
I'm not optimistic.
It could take months,
even years,
to find a solution.
And we must face
the possibility
that this condition is simply...
untreatable.
I feel as though
I've lost two patients.
I'm sorry.
I'll inform the rest
of the crew.
( door chimes )
Come in.
I hope I'm not disturbing you.
It's all right.
Um, please...
sit down.
Ocampan prayer tapers.
For Tuvok and Neelix?
It's funny...
if something happened to Tuvok,
if Neelix were here,
he'd be the first person
to comfort me.
And if I lost Neelix...
the first person
Tuvok would be
to guide me spiritually.
Now I don't have either of them.
You have me, Kes.
Thank you.
But...
of what you've lost.
I remind you
It's not your fault.
to accept who I am now.
I know, and I'm trying
Captain Janeway tells me
for me on this ship...
there's a place
but I can't help feeling like...
like some sort of impostor.
each other get through this.
Maybe we can help
I've been hoping.
That's what
I know this is going to sound
very strange to you...
perhaps even illogical...
since, in a way, we've only
known each other a few days.
But I want you to know...
I love you, Kes.
But I hardly know you.
A-And besides, what about...
what about Tuvok's wife,
for one thing?
He was completely
devoted to her.
What happens
when Voyager
gets back home?
Are you just going
to forget her?
I could never forget T'Pel.
I carry Tuvok's love
for her inside me
and I would never ask you
to forget Neelix.
How can you talk this way?
Because
I carry Neelix's love for you
inside me, as well,
and I always will.
the Doctor.
You heard
It could be years
before he finds a way to bring
Tuvok and Neelix back--
if ever.
that might be a lifetime.
For you,
Please go.
I'm sorry.
I should've controlled
my emotions.
All I really came to say
is that I'll be here for you
if you need me.
( door chimes )
Captain.
Kes.
have bothered you this late.
I'm sorry. I shouldn't
I'll, uh, talk to you
tomorrow.
Actually, I was having
trouble sleeping.
I could use some company.
Would you like
some hot tea?
Please, sit down.
some old letters Tuvok sent me
I was just looking over
assigned to Jupiter Station.
when he was temporarily
Most people would say
analytical, detached, but...
his writing is cold,
I've always found it to be...
concise, efficient...
...thoughtful.
when I read the words.
I hear his voice
And Neelix...
so fond of him, Kes.
I'd become
I can't imagine what
you're going through.
to you about Tuvix.
I wanted to talk
He came to see me
this afternoon.
Oh?
He said... he said
that he loves me.
I suppose I can see
how that's possible,
given the circumstances.
I wasn't sure what to say.
At first I was angry,
trying to comfort me
but I know how he's
and I know that he
feels alone, too.
he's a wonderful person.
To tell the truth,
Do you have feelings
for him, too, Kes?
No, I don't.
I mean, how could I?
I still love Neelix...
and I'm not ready
to give up on him,
no matter what the Doctor says.
I know how you feel.
You're experiencing
what people on this crew
have been going through
since we first got stranded
in this Quadrant.
Do we accept
from our loved ones forever?
that we're separated
Or do we hold on to the hope
we'll be with them again?
that, someday,
What do you do, Captain?
Oh... I struggle with it
every day.
of hope and optimism.
Sometimes, I'm full
Other times...
( clears throat )
I dream about being with Mark...
...and it's so real.
and realize it's just a dream,
Then, when I wake up
I'm terribly discouraged.
In those moments,
just how far away he really is.
it's impossible to deny
And, uh...
I know that, someday,
I may have to accept that he's
not part of my life anymore.
that I should just accept
So, are you saying
that Neelix isn't a part
of my life anymore?
I would never tell you
or anyone else
to give up hope, Kes.
I think the best thing
you can do now...
is give yourself time.
Thank you, Captain.
I'll go now and
let you sleep.
My door is always
open to you, Kes.
Stardate 49678.4.
Captain's Log,
JANEWAY:
It's been two weeks
since the transporter accident
that created Mr. Tuvix
and, while it's still
not entirely clear
that he's with us permanently,
he's certainly been doing
his best to settle in.
The crew seems to be growing
accustomed to his presence,
a very able Tactical Officer
and he's proving to be
to express his opinions.
who isn't afraid
While he's forging
relationships
with many of the officers,
respectful distance from Kes,
he seems to be keeping a
allowing her to adjust
to the circumstances
on her own terms.
As for my relationship
with Tuvix,
to be an able advisor,
I've found him
who skillfully uses humor
to make his points.
a bit guilty saying it,
And although I feel
his cooking is better
than Neelix's.
are definitely happy
My taste buds
to have him around.
( playing medium tempo melody)
Sick Bay to Ensign Kim.
DOCTOR:
Please turn to your emergency
medical holographic channel.
How can I help you, Doc?
Suppose I found
a radioisotope
that could selectively
attach itself
DNA sequences.
to specific
Could the surgical transporters
be reprogrammed
to lock on to those
enhanced sequences
from the remaining DNA?
and separate them
Well, I think so,
the molecular imaging scanners,
but we'd have to modify
and find a way to compensate for
the higher levels of radiation.
Thank you, Ensign.
Wait a second.
What's going on?
It's pure speculation
at this point.
when I've learned more.
I'll let you know
This is about Tuvix, isn't it?
I'm on my way.
Eight ball, corner pocket.
That's game again, Commander.
We've created a monster.
Best out of five?
( door opens, closes )
Would you mind if we finished
this later, Commander?
Not at all.
Hi.
( clears throat )
How have you been?
Good days and bad days.
You?
Me, too.
Listen, I'm sorry I've been
so distant lately.
Kes, you don't owe
me an explanation.
a lot of thinking.
I've been doing
that we can be friends.
And I'm hoping
I would like that very much.
friendship to grow.
And I'd like our
You would?
Yes.
But it's going to take time.
I'm not going anywhere.
Doctor to Lieutenant Tuvix.
Tuvix here.
to Sick Bay immediately.
Please report
in the 21st century,
Until late
DOCTOR:
physicians administered
barium to patients
with certain
gastrointestinal disorders.
The radioactive properties
of the barium
of the intestines visible,
made the lining
technology called X rays.
with a primitive imaging
come up with a radioisotope
Instead of barium, we've
that attaches itself
of the merged species,
to the DNA of one
but not the other.
Then we simply beam out
the selected DNA,
the two merged species.
and segregate
You see these?
a single merged flower.
They used to be
this same process?
And you can use
It will require
a more detailed reprogramming
of the transporter,
but, yes, I believe
we can restore
and Mr. Neelix.
Mr. Tuvok
That's wonderful.
Isn't that wonderful?
I assure you,
Mr. Tuvix,
there's nothing
to worry about.
for every variable.
We've accounted
Except one.
I don't want to die.
It's funny...
to separate Tuvok and Neelix
if we'd had the ability
the moment Tuvix came aboard...
I wouldn't have hesitated.
Of course not.
But now...
in the past few weeks...
he's begun to make a life
for himself on this ship.
responsibilities...
He's taken on
made friends...
I count myself
as one of them.
he become an individual
So, at what point did
and not a transporter
accident?
( door chimes )
( sighs )
Come in.
You wanted to see me, Captain?
Yes, Mr. Tuvix.
Please, sit down.
I feel as though
of the Numirian Inquisition.
I've been dragged in front
Will you excuse us, Commander?
( door opens, closes )
been discussing
We've just
the unfortunate...
that we're all facing,
predicament
and I thought it was important
to get your perspective
before making a decision.
Are you suggesting that this
is your decision to make?
I am the Captain of this ship.
Begging your pardon, Captain,
it's my life.
Isn't it my decision?
Aren't there two other lives
to consider here?
What about Tuvok and Neelix--
can't hear right now?
two voices that we
I must be their voice,
As Captain,
they would want to live.
and I believe
But they are living, in a way.
Inside me.
It's not the same.
And I think you'd agree with me.
They have families.
Friends.
People who love them
and want them back,
and miss them
just as I do.
But restoring their lives
means sacrificing mine.
Captain...
what you're considering
is an execution.
An execution--
to murderers centuries ago--
like they used to do
and I've committed
no crime at all.
for an execution, too--
Aren't you arguing
of Tuvok and Neelix?
I'm here-- alive.
Unfortunate as it may be,
they're gone.
And I have an opportunity
to bring them back.
Don't you think that I care
about Tuvok and Neelix?
Of course I do!
I wouldn't exist.
Without them,
In a way, I think of them
as my parents.
I know them intimately.
I feel like
Then you know Tuvok was a man
his life to save another.
who would gladly give
And I believe the same
was true of Neelix.
You're right, Captain.
That is the Starfleet way.
And I know there'll
be some people
who will call me a coward
because I didn't
sacrifice myself
willingly.
Believe me,
I've thought of that.
But I have the will to live
of two men.
Look at me, Captain.
When I'm happy, I laugh.
When I'm sad, I cry.
When I stub my toe,
I yell out in pain.
I'm flesh and blood.
And I... have the right
to live!
Kes...
I need your help.
from the Captain,
I've just come
and she's thinking
about forcing me
with the separation.
to go through
a difference, Kes, it's you.
If anybody can make
She'll listen to you.
We've helped each other
through this,
about what happens to me.
and I know that you care
Please.
Kes, you may be my only hope.
( door chimes )
Come in.
Captain...
to speak to you on his behalf.
Tuvix has asked me
But I can't.
He shouldn't have put you
in the middle of this.
But I am in the middle.
the moment of the accident.
I have been since
I don't know how to say good-bye
to Neelix and Tuvok.
I know this sounds horrible...
and I feel so guilty
for saying it...
and Tuvix doesn't
deserve to die...
but I want Neelix back.
( sobbing )
You're excused, Ensign.
what is our present speed?
Mr. Paris,
Warp 6.5.
I'd like to conduct a field test
of the aft sensor array.
Please, slow to impulse.
Commander?
Until the Captain
makes a decision,
the Tactical Officer.
Mr. Tuvix is still
Mr. Tuvix?
I'd like to speak
to you alone.
come to a decision, Captain?
Can I assume that you've
I have.
I think we all
should hear
what you have
to say!
Please come with
me, Mr. Tuvix.
No.
I'm ordering you
to come with me.
Security to the Bridge.
to stand by and do nothing
Commander, are you going
while she commits murder?!
Wha..?
Mr. Ayala!
Yes...
Lieutenant Paris...
you...
that this is wrong?!
Doesn't anyone see
( door opens )
( panting )
Let him go.
JANEWAY:
Each of you
to live with this...
is going to have
and I'm sorry for that.
For you are all good...
good people.
My colleagues.
My friends.
I forgive you.
Commander Chakotay,
we're on our way to Sick Bay.
advise the Doctor
Deck 5.
I'm sorry, Captain,
the surgical separation.
but I cannot perform
I am a physician,
and a physician
must do no harm.
I will not take
Mr. Tuvix' life
against his will.
Very well, Doctor.
Please step aside.
the radioisotope.
I assume this is
Please sit down
on this bio-bed.
targeting scanners
Locking surgical
onto the isotope probe.
separation sequence.
Initiating
Energizing.
Neelix!
Hello, sweeting!
Greetings,
Captain.
Mr. Tuvok...
Mr. Neelix...
it's good to have you back.